Feat: add the resource graph blog (#726)
oam-dev/kubevela.io: blog/2022-06-10-visualize-resources.md

---
title: Trace and visualize the relationships between the kubernetes resources with KubeVela
author: Qingguo Zeng
author_url: https://github.com/barnettZQG
author_image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/18493394?v=4
tags: [ KubeVela, Observable]
description: ""
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oam-dev/KubeVela.io/main/docs/resources/KubeVela-03.png
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

> Another big appeal in application delivery is the transparent management of the Kubernetes resource in the delivery process. For example, many users in the community like to use Helm Chart to package a lot of complex YAML, but once there is a deployment problem, such as the underlying storage can not be provided normally, the associated resources are not created normally, the underlying configuration is incorrect, etc., even a small problem will be difficult to troubleshoot due to the overall black box. Especially in the modern hybrid multi-cluster environment, there is a wide range of resources, how to obtain effective information and solve the problem? this is a very big problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the biggest requests from KubeVela community is to provide a transparent delivery process for resources in the application. For example, many users prefer to use Helm Chart to package a lot of complex YAML, but once there is any issue during the deployment, such as the underlying storage can not be provided normally, the associated resources are not created normally, or the underlying configuration is incorrect, etc., even a small problem will be a huge threshold for troubleshooting due to the black box of Helm chart. Especially in the modern hybrid multi-cluster environment, there is a wide range of resources, how to obtain effective information and solve the problem? This can be a very big challenge.
```

![multiple-cluster-graph](https://static.kubevela.net/images/1.4/multiple-cluster-graph.jpg)

In addition, different resources have different key information, such as whether PVC is bound, whether Pod instance is started, whether Service resource is associated with external IP and so on. These are called key information, and some information is displayed on the resource node bottom, others display when the mouse moves over the node. The information helps you quickly determine whether the resource configuration is correct and its status is normal.

Further, if you want to query the detailed configuration of ConfigMap, whether the capacity and access method of PersistentVolumes are correct, whether the RBAC authorization rules are correct, etc., you do not need to leave the VelaUX and manually dig through YAML files. Initiate a query by clicking the Detail button in the node extension area. KubeVela will securely query and display the latest configurations from the target cluster through the cluster gateway.

![resource-detail](https://kubevela.net/assets/images/resouce-detail-0919c787c88e6b38f00ea490d558a927.jpg)

> ## Next station

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What's next?
```
